ZANJABILA
0822-4509-5866 | zanjabilaabil@gmail.com | linkedin.com/in/zanjabila/ | github.com/zanjabil2502
20 Kapten Ilyas Street, RT 01, RW 01, Singonegaran Subdistrict, Banyuwangi District, Banyuwangi Regency, East Java, Indonesia
A seasoned AI Engineer with five years immersed in the world of Artificial Intelligence, I've honed my expertise in building both SaaS and
On-Premise AI-driven systems, leveraging the power of Python, LlamaIndex, VLLm, Qdrant, etc. Beyond AI, I'm passionate about crafting
dynamic web services, bringing three years of experience with Next.js, Tailwind CSS, and Socket.IO to the table.

Work Experiences
Ajari Technologies PTE. LTD - Jakarta, Indonesia

Jan 2025 - Present

Lead AI Engineer
AJARI is a technology company specializing in the development of advanced machine learning models and the application of artificial
intelligence to enhance system performance—driving greater efficiency, accuracy, and customization. At this stage, our innovations are
focused on advancing neural network capabilities and optimizing data exploration within modern, two-way end-to-end communication
systems.
Led an AI team of 3 members.
Designed over 5 AI System Architectures and Workflow Processes tailored to specific project or product requirements.
Developed over 5 proof-of-concept (POC) AI services for internal product teams and external clients, such as the Azerbaijan Ministry,
Uzbekistan Government, and companies in the UAE.
Made key decisions and prepared development plans and scenarios for PoC systems, including projects such as AI Multimodal
Sentiment and Anomaly Analytics, AI Personalized Learning Pathway, AI Learning Assistant (Text-to-Text System), and AI Learning
Buddy (Speech-to-Speech System), among others.
Responsible for 3 AI service products and more than 5 AI service projects.
Assigned tasks and managed the backlog for the team.
Ajari Technologies PTE. LTD - Jakarta, Indonesia

Mar 2024 - Present

AI Engineer Staff
Built and developed 2 Real-Time Transcription and Translation Services, including a Minutes of Meeting Service, both as standalone
products and as project solutions.
Developed 2 Vision AI-based services: AI Face Verification and AI Focus Rate.
Researched and experimented with 2 AI services: Coal Monitoring on Conveyors and PDF Document Translation.
Built and developed Over 6 Real-Time Speech-to-Speech AI Assistants based on Agentic Systems, such as NISA, AI Learning
Buddy, Go Virtual, and others.
Developed more than 5 AI agents and RAG system, including Call Reservation Agent, Translator Agent, Minutes of Meeting Agent,
Tax Agent, and more.
Conducted research, benchmarking, and evaluation of systems, models, and LLM responses.
Developed an environment for local AI models to serve as the central AI service hub.
Discovered a new method for AI agentic workflows tailored to low-resource settings.
PT. Bahasa Kita - Jakarta, Indonesia

Dec 2022 - Feb 2024

Production Staff
PT. BahasaKita (PT. Bahasa Kinerja Utama) is a forward-thinking company dedicated to developing innovative products in the field of
information and communication technology. Our expertise spans automatic speech recognition systems, machine translation, text-tospeech synthesizers, and more—empowering seamless communication and bridging language barriers through cutting-edge solutions.
Build less more 10 API Service such as Speech To Text Service, Text Translation Service, etc.
Design and Create UI/UX interface for 3 Web Services such as Dikte.in.
Development Web Service of product based on user experience.
Build Products and Features, such as Dikte.in, Upload feature, Streaming feature, Summary feature, etc.
Testing, evaluating, & monitoring products performance, especially End-to-End Test.
PT. Bahasa Kita - Jakarta, Indonesia

Sep 2022 - Feb 2024

Research & Development Staff
Research about AI Model, especially Open Source Model and Local Model.
Development 3 AI Inferance, such as Upload STT Inference, Streaming STT Inference, etc.
Modification Library or Inference of AI, such as Get Partial Result during process
Improve AI Inference Performances such as Reduce Processing Time, CPU Usage, GPU Usage, and Implementing a New Method or
New Flow Process

Education Level
Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember - Surabaya, Indonesia

Aug 2018 - Aug 2022

Bachelor Engineering Physics, 3.62/4.00
Final Project: The signal processing field with the title "COVID-19 Cough Sound Classification baseed on Deep Learning" and get an
accuracy score of 88.19%
Obtain campus research funding with lecturers for research "COVID-19 Cough Sound Classification based on Deep Learning"
Conducted research with faculty and co-authored the publication "Jointly Predicting Emotion, Age, and Country Using Pre-Trained
Acoustic Embedding."
Contributed to the research paper "Evaluation of Automatic Single Cough Segmentation."
Collaborated with faculty and contributed to the Q2 publication "Cross-dataset COVID-19 Transfer Learning with Data Augmentation."
Contributed to the research paper "Comparing Hysteresis Comparator and RMS Threshold Methods for Automatic Single Cough
Segmentation."

Skills, Achievements & Other Experience
Hard Skills: Experienced in integrating both third-party and local large language models, such as OpenAI, Claude, Gemini, VLLM
Service, SeaLLM, Llama, Deepseek, and Qwen.
Hard Skills: Experienced in integrating both third-party and local speech-to-text models, such as Google Speech Streaming and
Whisper.
Hard Skills: Experienced in integrating both third-party and local text-to-speech models, such as PlayHT, Coqui, and ElevenLabs.
Achievements (2021): Bronze Medal in Poster Category PIMNAS 34 by Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education
Indonesia with research title "Respiratory Disease Classification based on Lung Sounds using Convolutional Neural Network"
Projects (2022): Take part in the ICML Expressive Vocalization (ExVo) Workshops & Competition with the ExVo Multi-Task subchallenge and and get the best 6th position
Soft Skills: Analytical Thinking, Critical Thinking, Logical Thinking, Teamwork, and Time Management
Achievements (2021): Gold Medal in Presentation Category PIMNAS 34 by Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education
Indonesia with research title "Respiratory Disease Classification based on Lung Sound using Convolutional Neural Network"
Projects (2022): Take part in ComParE 2022 with the Vocalisations sub-challenge & the Stuttering sub-challenge.
Projects (2022): Research for the final project entitled "Covid-19 Cough Sound Classification Based on Deep Learning" and and get an
accuracy score of 88.19%

